all right folks welcome back
a little bit earlier broadcast today
has some plans this evening so i want to
get it out of the way
all right so we're looking at
obviously a hindsight view of something
i
pointed to before it happened so that
way you guys got a chance to see what it
was like for
my private mentorship group when i say
these things it's almost like an
invitation for some of you to email me
to ask to join out you can't join it
okay i'm teaching mentorship
on youtube okay so that way
you don't need to reach out to me okay
it's
i'm teaching right here and you didn't
have to send me any credit card
information you'd have to set up any
kind of paypal account
there's nothing to worry about
you either watch it and enjoy it and get
something from it or you never come back
and watch anymore okay it's very simple
but i'm getting a lot of feedback from
the comments and it's been very positive
so thank you for that
it's very encouraging all right so we're
looking at the
e-mini nasdaq futures contract for the
march delivery
if you remember
i was outlining this imbalance in here
okay and i gave you the high of this
candle below that candle which it should
be
sitting right on that
so
with this imbalance
we traded down to a discount back up to
a premium
again measure the high
to the low and i'll do that for you now
because i know somebody like can you
just do it for me
all right so here's 50 that's
equilibrium inside this dealing range
high
and low
so we traded from these lows up into a
premium above 50
below 50 is a discount up here we tried
to rally up above this high failed broke
back down below 50 percent
and then created a gap
okay so it comes up back into a premium
market above 50
and fills in the gap i mentioned how
this type of retracement
can lull traders into likely thinking
it's going to go higher
but we're thinking down here okay the
liquidity resting below here is what
they're going to attack
so all of this consolidation just sets
up another selling opportunity to run
down there
and again you're welcome to go back and
listen to the previous discussions
and you'll hear me basically say that
we're going down here
all right so it needs to rebalance this
first and it spends three days in that
range
notice that
then
it releases the downside attacks the
cell side here
and trades into the cell cell liquidity
resting below here
so let's go into a lower time frame
hourly chart
and fared out some more information and
details all right so here is the hourly
chart you can see that high end of the
fair value gap and the low end of the
favorite gap we traded up into that sold
off
consolidated
sold off once more
and you watched
me share
on the community tab
my live trades from
yesterday it was traded through td
ameritrade it was not a
demo account okay
so
i want to go into what i used
what i saw and then obviously
i'll show you in the account
where the details were okay
all right so the market started trading
rallied up took out a short-term high on
friday
see that
then started the breakdown now the
overnight i was watching this but i was
hoping that it didn't take out
that low before the morning i wanted to
see it trade up here take the high out
and then consolidate after running below
that short term low i didn't want it to
be in a hurry before the new york
session in the morning because that
would have set up a nice short up here
where i could have taken a run under
this low and then see if i can capture a
re-entry
which is the entry you'll actually see
me do
and then
the drop down in here now on monday it
was a bank holiday and trading stops at
one o'clock in the afternoon on holidays
generally
and resumes around six o'clock in the
afternoon new york time
and when we stopped here we had already
moved aggressively lower and stopped
right there so i felt very strongly that
we were going to gap down below it and
it gave just a beautiful
gap lower and run immediately
but i was
looking at the 13 5 ninety thirteen five
eighty six level
real time and i couldn't get to my
screen fast enough
to close it out there
and i didn't wanna put a limit order in
because if it got really far down below
and started running you know really
lower
with a lot of speed and such i didn't
want to limit my
profitable
exit with having a limit order in so i
just left it open-ended
and i wanted to see how far it would
reach down in there by the time i closed
the trade it closed me at thirteen
thousand six twelve and a quarter so my
entry was thirteen thousand eight fifty
eight and a quarter the exit was
thirteen thousand six twelve and a
quarter
that's not
a little bit of ticks okay 204 some plus
handles so
you take that 240 sum
times that by four there's your tick
value for those like to keep counting
them
you're going to drop down into a 15
minute time frame
all right so
we had that run on
friday's high here
to break down
and at 10 30 in the morning
10 33 was the actual fill so it's right
in that candle
right in here
i'm trading in that candle going short
so we're going to go into the details
and look at why that was the case
and again
you'll see the live account log in in
the business okay so just hold on to
your horses if that's the attitude you
have right now oh you in the hindsight
so we're going to go into a
five-minute chart start going down
into
the details here
this is a little bit taller so that way
you can appreciate the imbalances that
are being shown
all right so we had
this rally up
which in my mind was acting like a judah
swing in the morning
okay so here's 8 30
it starts to run higher
so i want to be in
going short
at this candles opening
and you can see that well maybe you
can't see it
the opening price over here okay
here is 8 30's candle right there
the opening at 13 7 98 and a half
so i want to be preferably going short
something above that
price
okay so i'm anticipating further
weakness
and before i go any further in this one
i got several people
probably about
half a dozen or so
mentioning
their confusion with why i mentioned the
opening price at new york at midnight
and in the opening price at 8 30 in the
morning
there's two
reference points being specifically
dealt with there
if you're looking at the entire daily
range you're going to use the opening
price at midnight
but if you're going to be looking at the
morning session
you're going to be looking at the 8 30
in the morning opening price
okay so hopefully it's made a
distinction there don't worry i have a
market structured lesson coming up on
thursday that will further solidify and
remove all doubts and concerns about
that okay but for now let's just go
through this one
so 8 30 in the morning the opening price
i'm bearish i'm thinking we're going to
go down below that green level there
that's the old daily low
so
on this candle here at 8 30 i'm
expecting
all this being a fake rally it's
something to lull in traders that chase
it going higher the retracement people
that don't really understand order
blocks they're going to say look at that
it's a down closed candle i'm going to
buy that and then when it starts to go
up like that they feel wow this is
really easy every down closed candle
after a run-up is a bullshore block it's
not
in here is the real context okay we have
an imbalance there
and that's what i'm looking at i'm
looking at this
imbalance right
there so i'm trying to operate inside
that range for a short
now i know because of the volatility
it can color outside the lines and it's
okay
the bodies of the candles are kind of
supporting the idea of what i'm looking
for but the wicks i could care less
about because i want to get in when it's
ideal and i'm going to show you what
that was looking like for me at the time
so we're going to drop down into
a four-minute chart
okay so here is that imbalance and fair
value gap on the five-minute chart but
now it's a little skewed because it
takes up two candles to show that range
the market trades up
and
right
in that candle
that one right there that's where i'm
going short i got in at 10 33 okay that
was my short
dropping down into a
three minute chart
okay the market trades up
works inside that imbalance and right
there 10 33 that candle
when it's starting to bump up against
the top end of that fair value got right
there
as it hits that and starts to move away
i'm in there
i'm going short right there
the reason why i'm trusting that
and not thinking it's going to go higher
is because we have this high here
okay
and then we have this high here which
highs higher
this one or that one
obviously this one
now this candle is high
watch what happens
from this high we have a short-term
swing high next to it here and then we
have one here
so this one makes
a intermediate term high
so we have a long-term intraday
on a three-minute chart which sounds
like an oxymoron though but
long-term high
intermediate term high
because this high is lower than that one
but we have a swing high here
and here that are lower
both being lower than this one
then we have the same context
right here we have a high
with a lower high on either side of it
so i have market structure
behind me showing that this is number
one it's a bearish market because my
draw and liquidity is down here it
hasn't traded down there yet okay so
it's gonna act like a big magnet
so all these fluctuations in here
without understanding what i'm showing
you it's gonna feel like it's just noise
it's chop it's not it's actually telling
you exactly what it's going to do
so the swing high here
is an intermediate term swing high so i
want to be going short real close to
this high
because it's likely to break like it
does here
so at
10 33
when it hits the upper end of that fair
value got
i have at now at this moment
go back one candle we have this high a
higher high and a lower high so we have
a high with a lower high on either side
of it that's a swing high that is lower
than this one
that is lower than that one
so
it's far more than just oh he's just
looking at lower lows lower highs
that's what a
myopic individual would come and watch
this so like when they see me put a
rectangle in the chart they're saying oh
it's supply and demand it's not there's
so many more factors involved that
it's just not even in the same vicinity
okay
so
sparing all that compare and contrast
because i've done a lot of that already
on the videos on this youtube channel
the elements of intermediate term
short-term highs
i learned that from larry williams okay
that
mode of
deciphering market structure
he taught that
in a video course that i bought back in
the early 90s and it was a video course
that i mentioned many times in this
youtube channel
the future millionaires confidential
trading course
something to that effect it was for vhs
tapes and
when he talked about market structure
it
kind of went over my head the first few
times listening to it like i didn't
really
understand what he was showing until i
started literally going into the charts
and saying okay here's a swing high and
this is how you learn it okay because
trust me
watching this video
or watching someone else parrot what i
say and then say wow he did it in five
minutes he's teaching it better that's
not it's not jealousy me saying that i'm
telling you you have no idea what you're
doing you're not even teaching it
correctly and those that believe that
they're learning it correctly are going
out there and wrecking themselves
what you're looking at
is a price chart with a
directional bias okay something that's
leading to a draw on liquidity so i've
already told you last week that we were
going to go below that green line
that's where we were heading
so what you're doing is you're looking
at
all the swing highs
and every time you see a swing high on a
song high is simply a high that has a
lower high candle to the left of it and
a lower high candle to the right of it
and then one in the middle that's your
swing high
note that okay in the old days when we
printed out our charts and such and we
had chart books delivered to us we would
get them once a week they would give us
the friday's closing data and all the
daily candles and then until we got our
new updated chart book
we had to hand draw in the open high low
and close
on the charts when the markets say we
were following
so
whenever we saw a swing high or swing
low we would just put a little ring
above it little circle okay like a
little halo
and that would be
a short term high
now
i would do a double
circle or double halo for an
intermediate term high
and then three halos for a long term
swing high
so that way when i'm looking at price it
allows me to
classify
the level of
high that is forming
so it's not just
lower low low or high no you got to look
at the nesting effect of the highs and
lows and again that concept i learned
from larry williams in the early 90s he
talks a little bit about it in
his book how i made a million dollar
trading commodities last year which i
believe is absolutely still essential
reading even though there's a lot of
things in that book i think is just
fluff and just like all the moon phases
and things i'm not into all that stuff
but his
chapters on
market structure and
his million dollar trading concepts
those ideas and that premise behind it
they are still true today and they
probably will always be true so
if you don't have that book my
recommendation is to get it
go and get it where we can i'm not going
to put any kind of affiliate links up
that way you can't think i'm making any
money
by showing his uh his books i just think
it's a really good book and at least
once a year i go through and read it
just for nostalgia reasons but i got it
pretty much remembered
verbatim
but by looking at that relationship of
the highs
i trusted this because we had a swing
high here already in effect and i know
this candle here is not likely to go
above this one because this one didn't
go above that one and this one didn't go
above that one
not because it's
lower lows and lower highs there's much
more going on
underneath
the the surface than just lower lows and
lower highs that's just
it's cringy when you hear people talk
like that and they try to reduce it down
to something like that or it's a support
resistance idea it's just by the floor
and sell the ceiling okay or why does an
ict look at this trade over here
industry because those trades are being
referred to in hindsight by those people
that talk like that
i'm literally taking live trades i'm
taking them i'm executing on them and i
know why i'm doing it i'm not guessing
i'm not trying to figure out or
deciphering what it is after i get into
trade i know what i'm looking for and i
know why i'm waiting for it
that is something that you learn by
developing patients and trusting a model
the only way you trust it is to go
through back testing look at all these
price action moves
and start classifying the swing highs
and swing lows i will amplify what i
just talked about here on thursday's
lesson okay because thursday's lesson is
going to be on market structure okay i'm
going to teach a lot of people out there
to think they know market structure they
don't really know that much at all
actually but
if this is
the candle i'm trying to get in at
and i execute on with all the
understanding of this outline there
i want to see displacement
we get it here
now if i didn't take this trade here
i could trade with the return back to
this right here why
why is that possible
we have a swing high
it's broken to the upside
this low
is taken out here
this candle is high here
if it touches that again i can be short
there
just using the imbalance
in the fair value gap entry technique
i'm teaching you
so
i can go there and get short or i want
to get up here as close as i can
to that important high that i've already
outlined here
so i want to be in that
and wait for that initial move because
then when this occurs
when you're that high up in the
well the session high
so at 8 30
right there this run up
i'm real close to this high
by entering there
notice that
i'm not waiting for a breakout below
that low
so i'm getting up in there where
it's
an optimal entry
i don't need to get the highest high
you don't need to get the highest high
but you need to understand why it should
be trading away from the levels you're
trying to enter at
and that's kind of like what i'm showing
you here i'm hinting at a deeper lesson
i'll give you on thursday
but the displacement comes
which is what i was waiting for and it
gives you a confirmation when this
occurs it's just almost like okay just
sit back and just relax and just let it
do its thing
now monday again was a holiday so i knew
i had abbreviated session hours so it's
going to close at one o'clock so that's
right in here
and then next candle obviously would be
one o'clock and it's not trading so it
closed
but it closed here ahead of one o'clock
and then
the holiday session closing at 1 pm in
new york local time
and the low that green level here
remember go back to the daily chart at
the beginning of the video and what we
were referring to last week
the liquidity the cell stops below this
green line that's where it was going to
attack
okay
and it came in
and did so it opened up six o'clock in
new york time opened up and slammed down
accelerating lower
that
is the move that you want to see
being short up here
and covering down below here
once it does that and it runs into it
low deep
that's it
take your profits and move the sidelines
and then wait because you have a big gap
here
it's likely to come back and rebalance
that and fill it in and it does
and then ultimately
trades
around that old low
and eventually pumps up
into the afternoon
consolidates
then goes into the early morning
afternoon hours
right there
and i
showed how this setup because after a
big move
you don't want to trade in the morning
session
just don't do it and i purposely go into
a demo account to appease that desire to
want to trade
so i don't
burn
the account i don't take the
heat off of
a nice win
and replace it or dampen it by taking a
losing trade
in my history in the last 30 years i've
been fortunate enough to know
how i have hurt myself
those things are the things that i like
to mentor with but those are also the
lessons that everybody complains about
until they lose money and then they come
back to me and they're like i wish i
would listen
so i get it you know everybody has their
own interpretation of what they should
be doing how they should be learning it
but
you know i've lived it you're just now
the you're learning about it
so
when i have a nice winning day as you'll
see it was a nice little win
um
i'm not gonna hurry to go back in
and then you have these days here
where it can trip you up you don't know
what's going on you don't know what's
likely to occur
so i went in and i demo traded and used
again quote unquote discount broker
leverage
to compare and contrast those
fellows out there that like to
work in their market replay and
paper trade their stuff with ninjatrader
and then
you know compare and contrast you know
what i'm doing with trading view
so
it kind of like scratches an itch
and it keeps me out of
trouble with a live account because
if you catch a good lick in the
marketplace
and you've had winning trades or you
caught a really nice winning trade that
you had to wait for the setup to pan out
when that occurs
if you're new you have an impulsive
tendency to want to go back in
immediately and get that dopamine hit
again i i did something right you know i
made money
when i was a younger man
i did that and i had some really nice
run-ups in the account and then boom
i get a really big winning trade
all of a sudden
i feel like
it wasn't enough
because i was so low nobody around me
was supporting me i had no support
structure around me none
i didn't have anybody saying hey what
you do is awesome
you don't need to worry about anymore so
it was just me saying i had to do more
so
one of the
mental hurdles you're going to have to
contend with
is knowing when enough is enough
and when you've made money real money in
a live account
you just don't want to rush to get back
in there again you get folks out there
that sit on social media and say you
know you got to push your edge
no you don't want to push your edge
because if you keep pushing your edge
you're gonna dull it
you sharpen it by
knowing when to get in when to get out
and you don't dull your edge
okay so when i hear people talk like
that i already know they're not
profitable i know they're not profitable
because they're gamblers and they want
to sound like they're doing something
all the time and they're not and if they
are they're doing it probably
unprofitably
so
this morning
after 9 30
again what's the bias
bearish
that has not changed even though we had
this run up it hasn't changed so at 9 30
equity is open
after consolidation
it runs up creates a high and then runs
up again takes out the high that right
there is your
run on stops
wait to see if it wants to break down it
does
so we're going to look at that
and
refer back to the video i just put a
little short video up uh this morning
and outlined the whole business there i
don't want to do it here because this is
rehashing what i already showed in a
very short one minute or so video
but ultimately
right in here
we have a nice little selling
opportunity
and you can attack
the fair value gap in here between the
low and the high
right there it would be and if you want
to trade with the longer term bias you
could attack the cell side liquidity
resting below here and here because
they're relative equal lows and then you
would have got a nice fill there as well
so
i teach in a manner that allows my
students to pick
number one the style or trader they want
to be they want to be a day trader they
want to be a scalper do you want to be
intraday swing trader if they want to be
a short-term trader where you're holding
over you know overnight or if you want
to be a
daily chart swing trader or four-hour
chart swing trader where you're holding
you for a week or more or if you want to
do a position trader which to me is i
don't have
i don't have that mentality to do that i
have too many things that show up on a
chart that make me change my mind all
the time
so i have a lot more opportunities
because i think short term and i excel
in the short term
it does not mean that
that is not a profitable way of trading
when it's position trading because i
don't match that personality wise so
i like to excel where i'm strongest and
it's in intraday trading and i can
run
the account pretty quick with velocity i
can get in get short-term moves and just
parlay them out real quick which is kind
of like what i was demonstrating
you know facetiously this morning with
the one minute video
thumbing my news at the quan so we're
looking at the
likelihood of potentially going back
down below that level again if it does
it'll probably start to accelerate
i like 13 thousand three hundred
if we get you know on a roll going lower
i like that one and maybe even if we get
really excited it can trade down into
twelve thousands okay twelve thousand
eight fifty twelve thousand eight
seventy five in that area so
just something to think about i'm not
suggesting you should take a trade in it
or not but just
thinking out loud uh this lesson
obviously it was a little bit fast and
loose and it will be a lot more
structured on the market structured
lesson on thursday hopefully you found
this one insightful and i'm going to
show you again this was a trade actually
took with a live account
all right so i'm going to log into my
tdmr trade account
and i'll show you a result of a trade i
took
yesterday
i have not taken any live trades today
again this is just the show
real executions are being done
i like to teach with a demo
but just to answer the folks that are
just
really hardline critics or just want to
know
can i push the button
push the button on ct
all right so here is the business
for
uh last six days
trading
and again this
account is just to show what i believe a
student could do now right away look at
this right here this is this is not a
losing trade it looks like negative
twenty seven hundred dollars and fifty
five twenty seven fifty five what that
is is an adjustment by the broker
because at the time of settlement when i
closed the trade
it showed that i was up four thousand
nine hundred twenty dollars and then
because of their accounting they were
just showing that they were reflecting a
gain of seven thousand six hundred
seventy five dollars which is not a
actual realized result for me it was
them doing their administrative side
it's a broker thing trust me i cannot do
anything to make that happen it's not me
doing some funny money business okay
anybody that trades with live funds
they've probably seen this happen in
their own account
so over here you can see the executions
yesterday
at a scratch where i got in a little too
early i was only ambitious and then the
second one i wasn't sure if it was going
to go higher or lower and just to
appease my curiosity i threw a short end
just to see what we get
snapped against me a little bit
not not much but still enough to get my
attention and i knew what i was looking
for so there's the short i just outlined
in the previous portion of this video
wrote all that down held for the gap
opening after reopen at six o'clock and
there is the close of the trade right
there
nice little dandy four thousand nine
hundred twenty dollars fixes the
little pinch i took on
the one trade earlier in the day
and the one scratch was nothing it was
covering costs
okay and again there's the business
there that's the entry and that's the
exit and there's no commission costs on
the one above that as you can see that
was not a trade hope you found this
insightful until talk to you on thursday
be safe